# Data format

{% hint style="danger" %}
This data schema is in alpha and can change with no notice.
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="warning" %}
Coming soon: completed descriptions for all keys
{% endhint %}

OA.Report collects data on scholarly works such as papers, preprints, datasets, and code. Some of that data is generated by OA.Works and some are reused from other open sources.&#x20;

## Generated data

#### `can_archive`

_Boolean:_ `True` if the work can be self-archived in a repository.

`can_archive: "true"`

_Source_: [ShareYourPaper Permissions](https://shareyourpaper.org/permissions)\
_Updated_: Daily (paid), occasionally (free)

#### `version`

_String:_ What version of the work can be self-archived in a repository?

`can_archive: "acceptedVersion"`

Values are based on the [DRIVER Guidelines versioning scheme.](https://wiki.surfnet.nl/display/DRIVERguidelines/DRIVER-VERSION+Mappings)

_Source_: [ShareYourPaper Permissions](https://shareyourpaper.org/permissions)\
_Updated_: Daily (paid), occasionally (free)

#### `journal_oa_type`

_String:_ The journal's OA type.

{% hint style="info" %}
Think of this as [`oa_status`](https://unpaywall.org/data-format)for a journal.
{% endhint %}

Values include:

* `gold`: The journal's whole output is published Open Access.
* `hybrid`: The journal allows some articles to be published Open Access.
* `transformative`: The journal allows some articles to be published Open Access, and is listed by Coalition S as a transformative journal.
* `diamond` : The journal whole output is published Open Access. with no APC
* `closed`:  The journal's output is entirely behind a paywall, or bronze.
* `not applicable:` Used when the work is not in a journal (typically, a pre-print)

`journal_oa_type: "diamond"`

_Source_: OA.Works\
_Updated_: Daily (paid), occasionally (free)

#### `pmc_has_data_availability_statement`

_Boolean:_ `true` if PMC reports the article as having a data availability statement.

`pmc_has_data_availability_statement: "true"`

_Source_: PMC\
_Updated_: Weekly (paid), occasionally (free)

#### `email`

_String:_ The corresponding author's email address

`email: "joe@oa.works"`

{% hint style="info" %}
Most emails are encrypted if you're not logged in and viewing email associated with your organization.
{% endhint %}

_Source:_ OA.Works\
_Updated:_ Weekly (paid)

#### `author_email_name`

_String:_ The corresponding author's name for use in emails

`email: "Dr.Who"`

_Source:_ OA.Works\
_Updated:_ Weekly (paid)

#### `crossref_is_oa`

_Boolean:_ `true`if crossref data suggests the article is free to read

`crossref_is_oa: "true"`

_Source:_ Crossref\
_Updated:_ Weekly (paid), occasionally (free)

#### `updated`

_String: timestamp of when the record was last updated_

`updated: "1675693406601"`

_Source:_ OA.Works\
_Updated:_ Weekly (paid), occasionally (free)

### `supplements`

Each of these keys is found in the `supplements` object.

{% hint style="info" %}
While the name suggests these are secondary, they're in fact, critical to OAreport. They were given this name as they "supplement" the open data, and have nothing to do with supplemental information you might find in a research article.
{% endhint %}

#### `publisher_license_best`

_String:_ The license applied to this work by the publisher as best we can determine.

`publisher_license_best: "cc-by"`

_Source_: Data from Unpaywall, CrossRef, and manual collection can be used to support this designation.\
_Updated_: Weekly (paid), occasionally (free)

#### `repository_license_best`

_String:_ The license applied to this work by the repository as best we can determine.

`publisher_license_best: "cc-by"`

_Source_: Data from Unpaywall and Europe PMC can be used to support this designation.\
_Updated_: Weekly (paid), occasionally (free)

#### `is_preprint`

_Boolean:_ `true` if the article is on a preprint server

#### `has data availability statement`

#### `has_made_data`

#### `has_shared_data`

#### `has_open_data`

Asserts if a paper has created data and that data is licensed cc-by or cc-0.\
_Boolean_

#### `has_open_data: true`

Source: Remixed from Dataseer, Unpaywall, manual collection by OA.Works.\
Updated: As requested (paid)

#### `has_reused_data`

#### `has_made_code`

#### `has_shared_code`

#### `has_open_code`

#### `resource_doi`

#### `resource_licence`

#### `resource_location_name`

#### `resource_location_url`

#### `fundingstatement`

#### `apc_cost`

_String:_&#x20;

#### `invoice_date`

_String: Date_

#### `invoice_number`

_String:_&#x20;

#### `invoice_year`

_String:_&#x20;

### Organization specific `supplements`

These keys also start with `supplements.` However, they also end with an organization's name or acronym to provide organization-specific data. For instance: `supplements.grantid__bmgf`.

#### `grantid*`

#### `is_compliant*`

#### `is_covered_by-policy`

#### `is_new*`

#### `program*`

#### `is_approved_repository*`

#### `financial_disclosures*`

#### `remove*`

## Reused data

Open sources do a fantastic job of providing a lot of the core metadata used by OAreport.

See Crossref's documentation for the following keys:

* `funder`
  * `name`
  * `award`
  * `DOI`
* `subject`

{% hint style="info" %}
Note: Crossref is not our only source of funding data. However, it is the best source of open, structured data.
{% endhint %}

See [OpenAlex's documentation](https://docs.openalex.org/about-the-data/work#title) for the following keys:

* `doi`
* `title`
* `subtitle`
* `journal`
* `publisher`
* `issn`
* `volume`
* `issue`
* `PMCID`
* `is_retracted`
* is\_paratext
* is\_retracted
* `is_oa`
* `published_date`
* `published_year`
* `type`
* `authorships`
  * `author`
    * `id`
    * `display_name`
    * `orcid`
    * `author_position`
  * `institutions`
    * `id`
    * `display_name`
    * `ror`
    * `raw_affiliation_string`
* `concepts`
  * `display_name`
  * `id`
  * `level`
  * `score`

{% hint style="info" %}
We use equivalent Crossref data where OpenAlex data isn't yet available to provide up-to-date results. In some cases, such as \`PMCID\` we use other sources to provide more complete coverage.
{% endhint %}

See [Unpaywall's documentation](https://unpaywall.org/data-format) for the following keys:

* `oadoi_is_oa` (see `` `is_oa` ``)
* `oa_status`
* `has_repository_copy`
* `has_oa_locations_embargoed`

In the below `host_type` is prepended to a key as a helpful simplification over Unpaywall's `oa_locations` data:

* `publisher_version`
* `publisher_license`
* `publisher_url_for_pdf`
* `repository_version`
* `repository_license`
* `repository_url`
* `repository_url_for_pdf`
* `repository_url_in_pmc`
* `best_oa_location_url`
* `best_oa_location_url_for_pdf`

